Simplecov merger script post (#49)
fastruby/blog: _posts/2019-10-27-Merging-Multiple-SimpleCov-coverage-results.markdown

---
layout: post

> title: Merging-Multiple-SimpleCov-coverage-results

Reviewer: @bronzdoc Why is this dasherized like that?

> date: 2019-10-29 13:56:00

Reviewer: @bronzdoc Please update date here.

categories: ["Rails", "Simplecov", "Upgrades"]
author: bronzdoc
---

> As part of our Roadmap service at FastRuby.io, we have to analyze the test suite of the application we are upgrading to give a proper estimate on how long it will take us to upgrade. We use SimpleCov for this.

Reviewer: @bronzdoc Please break this long sentence into two: `we have to analyze the test suite of the application we are upgrading to give a proper estimate on how long it will take us to upgrade`

Reviewer 2: @bronzdoc Please add links for Roadmap, FastRuby and SimpleCov

> We got in to the problem of having SimpleCov results across different containers for the same application. Our goal was to have a single result for the whole application, so in this blog post we are going to show you how we solved that problem.

Reviewer: This sounds a little weird:

```
We got in to the problem of having SimpleCov results across different containers for the same application
```

Maybe something like this? 

```
Most of our clients use parallelization in their continuous integration tools. That means that SimpleCov generates multiple `.resultset.json` files for the same codebase.
```

Then you will have to continue with: 

```
Our goal was to have a single resultset file for the whole application, ... 
```

<!--more-->

> Some of the applications we upgrade are outdated and setups can be difficult, with no documentation, missing steps on how to set it up, etc. Even after the setup, the tests of these applications can take several hours to complete and generate a coverage report.

Reviewer: Please try to avoid using `etc.` in your articles. You can rephrase it like this:

```
Some of the applications we upgrade are outdated and setting them up can be difficult. Sometimes they have no documentation, missing steps on how to set them up, or outdated installation steps.
```

Reviewer: This could be improved: 

```
Even after the setup, the tests of these applications can take several hours to complete and generate a coverage report.
```

Like this:

```
Even after setup, the test suite of these applications can take several hours to complete and generate a coverage report.
```

> So, we have been approaching the problem a little different. Instead of executing the tests and generating the report locally, we rely on their CI configuration to get the coverage data and move on with the estimates. After all, the coverage report is just a metric to give us an idea on how much effort it will take us to complete the upgrade.

Reviewer: This sounds a little weird:

```
So, we have been approaching the problem a little different.
```

Maybe you mean:

```
So, we recently decided to take a different approach for this problem.
```

And:

```
Instead of executing the tests and generating the report locally, we rely on their CI configuration to get the coverage data and move on with the estimates.
```

Sounds better:

```
Instead of executing the tests locally and generating the report, we rely on our client's CI configuration to get the coverage data and move on.
```

> Not everything is rosy, we found a problem with this approach too. CircleCi allows you to parallelize the execution of any command and a common pattern is to execute different parts of your test suite in different containers. This will make it faster, since now you'll spread the load of your test in different containers. The problem with this is that if you are running SimpleCov it will generate a result for each of your containers. So, to have the full coverage report you'll have to merge all the results to generate the final coverage result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not everything is rosy, we found a problem with this approach too. Continuous integration services (like Circle CI) allow you to parallelize the execution of any command and a common pattern is to execute different parts of your test suite in different containers. This will make it faster, since now you'll spread the load of your test in different containers. The problem with this is that if you are running SimpleCov it will generate a result for each of your containers. So, to have the full coverage report you'll have to merge all results to generate one final coverage resultset.
```

> Not everything is rosy, we found a problem with this approach too. Continuous integration services (like Circle CI) allow you to parallelize the execution of any command and a common pattern is to execute different parts of your test suite in different containers. This will make it faster, since now you'll spread the load of your test in different containers. The problem with this is that if you are running SimpleCov it will generate a result for each of your containers. So, to have the full coverage report you'll have to merge all results to generate one final coverage resultset.

Reviewer 2: @bronzdoc maybe you can say `.resultset.json file` instead of `resultset ` to be more clear.

Author: @lubc  What you think of just `one final coverage result.`

Reviewer 2: sounds good

We want to share a little script on how to do the merging and generate a complete coverage.

```ruby
class SimpleCovMerger
  def self.report_coverage(base_dir:, ci_project_path:, project_path:)
    new(base_dir: base_dir).merge_results
  end

  attr_reader :base_dir, ci_project_path, project_pathj

  def initialize(base_dir: ci_project_path:, project_path:)
    @base_dir = base_dir
    @ci_project_path = ci_project_path
    @project_path = project_path
  end

  def merge_results
    results = all_results.map do |file|
      hash_result = JSON.parse(clean(File.read(file)))
      SimpleCov::Result.from_hash(hash_result)
    end

    result = SimpleCov::ResultMerger.merge_results(*results)

    result.command_name = "RSpec"
    SimpleCov::ResultMerger.store_result(result)

    result.format!
  end

  private

  def all_results
    Dir["#{base_dir}/.resultset-*.json"]
  end

  def clean(results)
    results.gsub(ci_project_path, project_path)
  end
end
```

> To use it you'll have to be aware of a couple of parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use it you'll have to be aware of a couple of parameters:
```

* base_dir         - This is the directory where you stored all your `.resultset.json` from your different containers/machines from your CI service
* ci_project_path  - The path where your project is stored in your CI service
* project_path     - The path of the project you are generating a coverage report

```ruby

> SimpleCovMerger.report_coverage(base_dir, ci_project_path, project_path)

Reviewer 2: @bronzdoc would it be useful to add a few more details to this example call? like defining the three parameters before

```

# Conclusion

> We hope you'll find this snipet of code helpful for your purposes. Please let us know if you have a better way of any ideas of improving it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hope you'll find this code snippet helpful for your purposes. Please let us know if you have a better way or any ideas for improving it.
```
